@node Timespec
@section Timespec

Specifiers of times, including their offset from some origin, and what
kind they are.

Refer to zic(8) and the AT field of rules.

@defun make-timespec time sign type

@defun timespec? x
@end defun

@defun timspec-time timespec
Should be a time object.
@end defun

@defun timspec-sign timespec
@code{'+} or @code{'-}
@end defun

@defun timspec-type timespec
char
@end defun
@end defun

@defun timespec-zero
The ``empty'' timespec.
@end defun

@defun timespec-add specs ...
@end defun

@defun parse-time-spec string [suffixes='(#\s #\w #\u #\g #\z)]
More or less follows the pattern @code{-?[0-9]@{2@}(:[0-9]@{2@})@{0,2@}[swugz]}.
@end defun


@node Zone Info Compiler
@section Zone Info Compiler

@defun read-zoneinfo ports-or-filenames
Takes a (possibly mixed) list of ports and filenames, and calls
@code{parse-zic-file} on each of them.
@end defun

@c @defun parse-zic-file port
@c @end defun

@defun zoneinfo?
@end defun

@defun get-zone zoneinfo name
Takes a zoneinfo object, and a name as a string (probably something
like ``Europe/Stockholm''), and returns a list of zone-entries.
@end defun

@defun get-rule zoneinfo name
Gets a list of rule objects, sorted in chronological order.
@var{name} is a symbol.
@end defun

@defun rule->dtstart rule
Returns the first time a given rule happens.
@end defun

@defun rule->rrule rule
Converts a given zoneinfo rule into a recurrence rule, of all times
that change occurs.
@end defun

@defun zone-format fmt-string arg
A special case of format, which handles the format strings containing
``%s'' and ``%z''.
@end defun



@defun make-rule name from to in on at save letters

See zic(8).

@defun rule?
@end defun

@defun rule-name
@end defun

@defun rule-from
@end defun

@defun rule-to
@end defun

@c @defun rule-type
@c @end defun

@defun rule-in
@end defun

@defun rule-on
@end defun

@defun rule-at
@end defun

@defun rule-save
@end defun

@defun rule-letters
@end defun

@end defun


@defun make-zone-entry stdoff rule format until

See zic(8).

@defun zone-entry?
@end defun

@defun zone-entry-stdoff
@end defun

@defun zone-entry-rule
@end defun

@defun zone-entry-format
@end defun

@defun zone-entry-until
@end defun
@end defun

