@node Entry Points
@chapter Entry Points

Calp has many different entry points. Each is implemented in a module
residing under @code{calp entry-points}. Each such module @emph{must}
export a @code{main} procedure, which should take a list of command
line arguments (as a single parameter).

When starting Calp from the command line, the @code{main} procedure
located in @code{(calp main)} is called. That procedure parses its own
command line flags, up until the first non-flag argument. That word
will be used to chose the actual entry point, which is then
responsible for parsing the remaining command line flags.

Information about global command line arguments can be accessed by
running @command{calp --help}, and subcommands arguments through
@command{calp @var{<subcommand>} --help}.

@deftp {Entry Point} benchmark module
Run @code{(@ (calp benchmark @var{module}) run-benchmark)} with
profiling enabled, and prints the collected data.
@end deftp

@deftp {Entry Point} convert
Convert calendar files between filetypes.
@end deftp

@deftp {Entry Point} html
Generates static HTML files.
@end deftp

@deftp {Entry Point} ical
Generates static iCal files.
@end deftp

@deftp {Entry Point} import
Import entry into database.
@end deftp

@deftp {Entry Point} server
Start the web server.
@end deftp

@deftp {Entry Point} terminal
Start the terminal interface.
@end deftp

@deftp {Entry Point} text
Format text, completely ignoring calendars.
@end deftp

@deftp {Entry Point} tidsrapport
Generate an FDF (PDF Form submission file) for some very specific time
reporting sheets.

TODO this should be removed from this project, and moved to a
``private'' repo of hugo.
@end deftp

@deftp {Entry Point} update-zoneinfo
Downloads zoneinfo files and places them in the correct location.
@end deftp
