@node Vulgar Terminal Interface
@chapter Vulgar Terminal Interface

The Vulgar@footnote{Since it's not Curses}
Terminal Interface aims to be a simple way to semi advanced terminal
interfaces.

@defun cls
Clear the screen, and move the cursor to the ``home''.
@end defun

@defun set-cursor-pos x y
Move the cursor to the specified position on the screen.
@end defun

@defun with-vulgar [bits] thunk
Runs @var{thunk} with
@code{iattr.lflag &= @var{bits}} and
@code{oattr.lflag &= @var{bite}}, along with
@command{tput civis} being run on entrance, and
@command{tput cnorm} being run on exit.

The thunk is properly prepared on non-local entrances and exits.
@end defun

@node Color
@section Color

@defvar STR-RESET
ANSI escape sequence for removing all current formatting, as a string.
@end defvar

@defmac color-if predicate color body ...
@code{(begin body ...)} is run, coloring it's return value using the
ANSI escape sequence @var{color}, if @var{predicate} is true, and
uncolored otherwise.
@end defmac

@defun color-escape n
Generates an RGB color escape code. @var{n} can either be @code{#f},
in which case the empty string is returned, or a a 24 bit color code
encoded hexadecimaly as @samp{#RRGGBB}.
@end defun

@node Termios
@section Termios

Interface to termios procedures. See termios(3) and @code{termios.h}
for general information.

@code{(vulgar termios)}

Refer to termios(3) for deeper information about all these fields.

@deftp {Record Type} <termios>
See ``The termios structure'' in termios(3).
@defun make-termios
Create a new (empty) termios structure.
@end defun

@defun cc termios
@defunx cflag termios
@defunx iflag termios
@defunx ispeed termios
@defunx lflag termios
@defunx line termios
@defunx oflag termios
@defunx ospeed termios
Accessors to termios each field.
@end defun
@end deftp

@defun copy-termios termios
Create a copy of the given termios structure.
@end defun

@defun tcsetattr! termios [port] [when=TCSANOW]
Updates @var{port} with flags from @var{termios}.
@end defun

@defun tcgetattr! termios [port=(current-input-port)]
Gets termios information about @var{port}, and stores it in @var{termios}.
@end defun

@defun cfmakeraw! termios
Calls the termios function @code{cfmakeraw} on @var{termios}, updating
the structure.
@end defun


@defvar TOSTOP
@defvarx NLDLY
@defvarx CREAD
@defvarx VSTOP
@defvarx B1500000
@defvarx B4000000
@defvarx B150
@defvarx VEOL
@defvarx VQUIT
@defvarx CSTART
@defvarx CBAUD
@defvarx CR0
@defvarx OLCUC
@defvarx CSTATUS
@defvarx VSTART
@defvarx IXANY
@defvarx ONOCR
@defvarx VERASE
@defvarx TTYDEF_IFLAG
@defvarx B1000000
@defvarx NL0
@defvarx FLUSHO
@defvarx TABDLY
@defvarx CDSUSP
@defvarx CEOL
@defvarx CIBAUD
@defvarx TAB3
@defvarx CR2
@defvarx NL1
@defvarx CS8
@defvarx CERASE
@defvarx OPOST
@defvarx TTYDEF_SPEED
@defvarx TAB1
@defvarx EXTA
@defvarx B1200
@defvarx TAB0
@defvarx B75
@defvarx EXTB
@defvarx FF1
@defvarx CR1
@defvarx CS5
@defvarx INPCK
@defvarx B576000
@defvarx B3000000
@defvarx OCRNL
@defvarx TCOON
@defvarx CBAUDEX
@defvarx CCEQ
@defvarx IXOFF
@defvarx CREPRINT
@defvarx FF0
@defvarx ECHONL
@defvarx IXON
@defvarx ISTRIP
@defvarx CSTOP
@defvarx PENDIN
@defvarx BRKINT
@defvarx IEXTEN
@defvarx TCIFLUSH
@defvarx VSUSP
@defvarx B38400
@defvarx TCION
@defvarx B921600
@defvarx ECHOPRT
@defvarx CQUIT
@defvarx IMAXBEL
@defvarx CRTSCTS
@defvarx ECHOCTL
@defvarx CEOT
@defvarx VMIN
@defvarx ICANON
@defvarx ONLRET
@defvarx VINTR
@defvarx CSTOPB
@defvarx B3500000
@defvarx B230400
@defvarx CS7
@defvarx TCOFLUSH
@defvarx TIOCSER_TEMT
@defvarx B200
@defvarx CSUSP
@defvarx BS1
@defvarx XTABS
@defvarx CLNEXT
@defvarx VT0
@defvarx NCCS
@defvarx BSDLY
@defvarx B9600
@defvarx ECHOKE
@defvarx VEOF
@defvarx TTYDEF_OFLAG
@defvarx VTDLY
@defvarx VT1
@defvarx CTRL
@defvarx NOFLSH
@defvarx VREPRINT
@defvarx ICRNL
@defvarx CINTR
@defvarx ADDRB
@defvarx B2500000
@defvarx EXTPROC
@defvarx B110
@defvarx XCASE
@defvarx ECHOE
@defvarx IUTF8
@defvarx CS6
@defvarx CFLUSH
@defvarx B500000
@defvarx CKILL
@defvarx CDISCARD
@defvarx VDISCARD
@defvarx B2400
@defvarx TTYDEF_CFLAG
@defvarx VWERASE
@defvarx INLCR
@defvarx ONLCR
@defvarx OFDEL
@defvarx B1800
@defvarx ISIG
@defvarx IGNPAR
@defvarx TAB2
@defvarx CTIME
@defvarx B1152000
@defvarx ECHO
@defvarx CR3
@defvarx CMSPAR
@defvarx PARENB
@defvarx B2000000
@defvarx VKILL
@defvarx B4800
@defvarx CLOCAL
@defvarx IGNBRK
@defvarx BS0
@defvarx TCSAFLUSH
@defvarx B19200
@defvarx TCSANOW
@defvarx VTIME
@defvarx B0
@defvarx TCOOFF
@defvarx CEOF
@defvarx B460800
@defvarx PARMRK
@defvarx VEOL2
@defvarx FFDLY
@defvarx TCSADRAIN
@defvarx IGNCR
@defvarx CRDLY
@defvarx VLNEXT
@defvarx PARODD
@defvarx CRPRNT
@defvarx B600
@defvarx VSWTC
@defvarx IUCLC
@defvarx HUPCL
@defvarx B50
@defvarx TCIOFF
@defvarx TTYDEF_LFLAG
@defvarx CBRK
@defvarx ECHOK
@defvarx B115200
@defvarx CSIZE
@defvarx B300
@defvarx OFILL
@defvarx CWERASE
@defvarx B134
@defvarx B57600
@defvarx TCIOFLUSH
@defvarx CMIN
Imported from the ``termios.h'' header file.
@end defvar
