@node Web Stuff
@section Web Stuff

@subsection (web query)

@defun parse-query query-string [encoding=''UTF-8'']
Given a string like ``?key=value&other=something'', returns
@code{(key: "value" other: "something")}. Performs uri-decoding of
both key and value. A key without a value decodes to that key, with
itself as its value
@end defun


@subsection (web uri-query)

@defun encode-query-parameters parameters
Given the association list @var{parameter}, encode it into a query
string on the form ``key=value&...''.
@end defun

@subsection (web http make-routes)

@defun parse-endpoint-string str
Only really public for tests.
@end defun

@defmac make-routes routes ...
Expands a number of endpoint specifiers into a procedure suitable for
use as a handler in @xref{Web Server,run-server,run-server,guile}.

Each form conists of
@itemize
@item the method (``GET'', ``POST'', ...),
@item the path, possibly with embedded parameters,
@item a list of parameters to capture, and
@item the body.
@end itemize

@example
(make-routes
  (GET "/path/:a" (a b)
    (return '((content-type text/plain))
            (format #f "a=~a, b=~a" a b)))
  ...)
@end example

The paths can contain embedded variables, which start with
colon, and their name continues until the next slash or period (or end
of string). Each path-embedded parameter must be present in the
parameter list.

The parameter list must contain all path-embedded parameters, and can
contain any other parameters, which will be bound from the query
parameters, or stay @code{#f} if not supplied by the browser.

The body should return one to three values, either directly, or
through an early return by calling the procedure @code{return}.

@defun return headers [body] [new-state]
@end defun

Inside the body, the following variables are bound to enable producing
the body:

@defvar request
@defvarx body
The raw request headers and request body.
@end defvar

@defvar state
The optional state.
@end defvar

@defvar r:method
@defvarx r:uri
@defvarx r:version
@defvarx r:headers
@defvarx r:meta
The requests components
@end defvar

@defvar r:scheme
@defvarx r:userinfo
@defvarx r:host
@defvarx r:port
@defvarx r:path
@defvarx r:query
@defvarx r:fragment
The request uri's components.
@end defvar

@end defmac
